T=1 Protocol Note (ISO/IEC 7816-3 2006(E))
%%mtime(Last updated: %Y-%m-%d)

%!include: ../header.t2t

+ Introduce +
T=1 protocol is a true transmission protocol compare with T=0 protocol.
It applies the OSI model and it does not know anything about the application
data (ie. APDU).

+ Need to know +
- The data unit is block (frame) in which all bytes are placed.
- Also all information is in the block such as control,  data info and so on.
- The first block is initiated by the interface device (its so common).
- Protocol will detect error but HW (ie. no need CREP).




+ Block +

++ Format ++
|| Prologue field (M) | Information field (O) | Epilogue field (M) |
| NAD(1) |PCB (1) |LEN (1) |  INF (0~254)  |  LRC (1) or CRC (2)  ||
Block size is  the total length these three fields.

++ Type ++
+ I-block: **I**nformation **block** is used to convey APDU.
+ R-block: **R**eceive ready **block** is used to convey ACK while the information field is absent.
+ S-block: **S**upervisory **block** is used to exchange control information between both sides.


++ Prologue field ++

+++ Node address byte (NAD) +++
|| 0 | D A D | 0 | S A D ||
**NOTE** In the same logic channel, the two address fields will be switched between both sides (ie. A sends (x,y) and B should send (y,x) as response).

+++ Protocol control byte (PCB) +++
PCB defines the block's type.

++++ I-block ++++
|| 0 | B7 | B6 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 ||
- B7: denoted N(S), the seq-number of the I-block
- B6: denoted M-bit, the more-data bit
- B5~B1: reserved


++++ R-block ++++
|| 1 | 0 | B6 | B5 | B4 | B3 | B2 | B1 ||
- B6: 0
- B5: denoted N(R), the seq-number of the expected I-block
- B4~B1
 - 0000b: error-free ACK
 - 0001b: redundancy code error or parity error
 - 0010b: other errors


++++ S-block ++++
|| 1 | 1 | B6 | B5 | B4 | B3 | B2 | B1 ||
- B6: Request or response indication bit, set 1 for a response.
- B5-B1
 - 00000: RESYNCH
 - 00001: IFS
 - 00010: ABORT
 - 00011: WTX

 **NOTE:** RESYNCH request is transmitted from interface device.  
           RESYNCH response is transmitted from card.


+++ Length byte (LEN) +++
This field indicate how many bytes will present in the information field.
- 0x00: INF is absent
- 0x01~0xFE: Length is 1~254. 
- 0xFF: Reserved.


++ Information field (INF) ++
- R-block: INF shall be absent.
- I-block: INF conveys application information.
- S-block: INF conveys non-application information.


++ Epilogue field ++
It conveys the error detection code of the block (LRT or CRC).


+ Parameters +
++ Specific interface bytes for T=1 ++
- The first TA for IFSC
- The first TB for CWI
- The first TC for CRC/LRC


++ Information field size ++
- IFSC: The max info field size for the **card**. Default value is 32.
- IFSD: The max info field size for the **interface device**.
 Default value is 32.


++ Guard and Waiting times ++
- CGT: The minimum delay between 2 chars in the same block (See CWT).
- BGT: THe munimum delay between 2 chars in the different block (See BWT).
- CWT: The maximum delay between 2 chars in the same block (See CGT).
- BWT: The maximum delay between 2 chars in the different block (See CGT).

**NOTE**:
- BGT = 22etu (fixed)
- CWT = 12etu (minimum)
- BWI = 4 (default)
- CWI = 13 (default)
 

+ Operation +
++ Error-free ++
+++ General +++
- The first block is transmitted by interface device and it shall be either an I or S block.
- Each block has been transmitted shall receive an ACK.
 - I-block's ACK
  - (non-chain)  Got an I-block with N(S) is different from the last N(S) of the **received** I-block, or
  - (chain)  Got an R-block with N(S) is different form the last N(S) of the **transmitted** I-block.
 - S-block's ACK
  - S(...response) as the S(...request)'s ACK.
- N(S) in I-block shall be free-running respectively.


+++ Chaining +++
How to do at both sides:
- For transmitter
 - Set M=1 for all I-blocks except the last one.
 - Set M=0 for the last last.
- For receiver
 - Response a R(N(R)) which N(R) is the expected block's seq-number.

**NOTE:** I-block with LEN='00' may be used within a chain.


+++ Rules +++
Ref: 11.6.2.3


++ Error handling ++
+++ Error types +++
- BWT time-out
- Reception of an invalid block
  - character parity error
  - redundancy code error
  - invalid PCB
  - invalid LEN
  - invalid block size
  - S(...request) and S(...response) are not match.


+++ If error occurs what to do? +++
T=1 may be attempted at 3 consecutive levels. If one level is unsuccessful,
then the next level is tried.
- For interface device:
  - retransmission of blocks,
  - use of S(RESYNCH request),
  - warm reset or deactivation.
- For card:
  - retransmission of blocks,
  - use of S(RESYNCH response),
  - without action by the interface device, the card becomes unresponsive.


+++ Rules +++
Ref: 11.6.3.2

**NOTE:** R-block in "Error handling" rules' function.

+ Still confusing? +
Just have a look at **Annex A** (Scenarios for T=1).
